Congratulations on making an awesome decision to come to Turing. I finished up Mod 1 last week, and it was a hoot. I learned a ton, made some friends and ate some cheese curds. So, overall, 6 weeks well spent. During the weeks and months to come, you will be challenged in (probably) new ways. Depending on your technical background, the curriculum might be a cakewalk or daunting, but don't measure your own performance by the performance of others. Instead, measure your performance based on where you were last week. Release any notion of competition, is my point. Push yourself to progress as much as you can and your money/time will be well spent.

The most valuable skill you'll learn is self-reliance. Teachers are great, but the sooner you learn to solve problems on your own, the sooner you'll start thinking like a professional, which means the sooner you'll be ready for a job. And despite that previous point, if you want some technical input or guidance on any projects, hit me up: @landfried.

Develop good habits early. Everything will feel overwhelming at first, and you'll think you need to focus on getting comfortable with IRB more than anything else, but this is paniced, unproductive thinking. You need to focus on keeping yourself healthy and productive, otherwise a time will come in the not too distant future that you are incapable of keeping up with the work because you depleted your mental and physical reserves. There is an expression you'll probably hear around here: Handle your shit. That means eat well, exercise, get some sleep. You'll truly be better off for it. If this was easy or natural, there'd be no point in advising it, so just remember that even though you might think you have to stay up until 2 AM to finish a project, you might be better served swallowing your pride, turning your computer off at 11 and going to bed. Easier said than done!

Developing good habits and assessing your own progress play nicely with the idea of a growth mindset, which is another popular idea in the Turing-verse. Basically, the idea is, there are two attitudes you can have about personal ability. The typical, culturally ingrained one is: You are good or bad at certain things and if something is difficult to do, or if you fail at it, it means you are bad at that thing. This is referred to as a fixed mindset, and is generally what we are taught in school and careers. The alternative is a growth mindset that acknowledges that even though we are bad at certain things, we can improve in those tasks if we want to. The process of improvement involves struggle and difficulty. So, it is not necessarily easy or fun to improve a skill, but it is certainly possible. Which means that anxiety you feel, that doubt, that pain, are all signs that you're on the right track. A growth mindset is essential for, in the immediate future, success at Turing, and on a longer timeline, any personal development. In short: Embrace the struggle. You'll hear a lot more about the growth mindset. Be open to it if it's a new idea for you.

Last, be nice to everyone, always. There are a lot of people in this basement, and we're usually under a lot of stress, so do your part to keep the SS Turing sailing smoothly.

I hope that's helpful! Everyone's unique and has different needs, so I tried to keep the advice general. Just don't freak out. And if you do freak out, don't freak out about freaking out. This is hard and unusual but it will be over soon and you'll be a top notch developer with an extremely valuable skill set sooner than you can imagine.
